# TransactionSorter

The TransactionSorter is a personal financial management application. It offers several analytical tools for a comprehensive overview of the user’s financial standing- past, present, and future. The application takes several user-defined benchmarks that will then itemize transactions and project balances based on the user’s financial goals. Though the application is still in a very infantile state, it can offer useful data for analysis right now. There are several other features that can be implemented in the future: these include a more flexible projection plot based on priority of planned transactions(which the back-end is already prepared to do), adjusting transactions for venmo reimbursements, and tracking other assets like stocks, bonds, and commodities. The interface consists of four tabs: Setup, Planning, Categorize, and Analysis. Each tab offers tools to create a comprehensive analysis of the user’s financial standing.

	The application opens up in the Setup tab. There, the user has the option to enter their current checking account balance, their income, the frequency of their income (ex: $2500 bi-weekly). In addition, they specify the date of their next pay day and when they pay off their next credit card bill. This information is used to run the cash projection analysis. The rest of the application is available for use without entering this information. However, if the user wants to see their projection, they will need to enter their current standing in order to provide an accurate prediction. The other button in the Setup tab will open a file manager to select a CSV of their credit card statement. Banks offer downloadable CSV files that can be accessed easily on their website. Once it's downloaded, the application can read the CSV and parse all transactions into items within the app that can be categorized and recorded. 
  
	After the CSV file is imported and parsed by the application, the user can create additional “planned transactions” in the Planning tab. The interface allows the user to specify what category the transaction belongs in, the amount, recurrence (if any), and if the transaction will be paid out of the user’s checking account or credit card. Once a Planned Transaction is created, it will be visible in the window- arranged by category. Planned Transactions are saved in the application as supplemental data for analysis of the user’s financial standing. 
  
	After the Planned Transactions are created, the user can manually sort their completed transactions imported from the CSV file. This window has buttons to create, edit, and delete categories that reflect the user’s spending (ex: Groceries, Hobby, Restaurants, Transportation). All completed transactions will appear in a “Unhandled” window, waiting to be sorted. The user can drag and drop transactions into the appropriate category. If there are several transactions at the same location (ex: a particular gas station), all identical transactions will be automatically sorted into the same category. Additionally, the name of that location will be linked to the category; any later transaction will be automatically sorted when data is pulled from a different CSV. 
  
	After the planned transactions are created and completed transactions are sorted, the application has enough information to create a comprehensive analysis of the user’s spending and future projection. The Analysis tab has a window that tracks the essential figures for each category: allotment, planning, spent, and balance. Below that table, there are figures that tell the user how much of their budget they have spent. The figures will be checked to see if they are close to overspending. If there is a chance of overspending, the application will flag the category and represent it in a different color. Within the Analysis tab, there are two buttons that will open pop-up windows with plotting capabilities. The first button is the Credit Card Analysis button. That will review all completed transactions and offer a bar graph, pie chart, and time series visualization of the user’s spending. The bar graph compares the amount spent versus the amount allotted for each category. The pie chart represents the amount spent for each category proportional to the total budget. The time series shows what the balance of the user’s credit card was throughout the time period the CSV held. The other tool offer is the projection analysis; the application will plot out the user’s projected checking account balance over 1 year. It makes this prediction based on their Setup tab data, and the Planned Transactions. Any Planned Transactions that will be paid out of the checking account will occur in the time series projection, as well as recurring credit card payments based on sum of the allotted amount for each category. Overall, the application will create a time series plot based on the user’s income, their credit card payment, and their planned transactions. 
  
	The application in its current state can offer useful information for anyone interested in understanding their spending habits and budgeting. Though in its early stages, it has all of the basic tools. The more information that the user can specify in regards to their budget and planned transactions in the future, the better feedback the application can offer. It has much more potential; additional ideas include adjustments for a Venmo balance, a savings tool, and accounting for other assets (savings and trading accounts). For now, the application offers a fast, seamless comprehensive overview of the user’s financial standpoint.

	
